you're about to join a cold water dive
into the green seas of Canada renowned
for their astonishing and some might say
unusual looking life your guide under
the waves is diver and conservationist
tre boys are you ready to enter a world
of wonder take a deep breath I'm sure
I'll be your guide in these green seas
over there buddy daddy
keep your eyes open as there's so much
to see here are you ready to start our
descent down we go I'll try to point out
some of the cool species with my dad
lean to your right
or a nice cool and widowed rock fish on
the wall a purple O'Casey stay to your
left you didn't see I'm really an orange
one can you see the jellyfish
illuminated by my light
these are aggregating jellyfish as we go
down we're now in more of a kelpy area
and you can see some Puget Sound
rockfish in between the kelp fronds and
down here we're in pointing with my life
now is some of the kelp species you find
in these emerald waters we have
old-growth kelp and split kelp growing
here you see the species changing as we
go down the wall if you look down you
can see a lot of white and enemies they
look a bit like clouds
these are Lumos an enemy and some of the
color that burning wall is known for is
starting to emerge do you see the yellow
sulfur sponges below us and red soft
corals many people don't associate cold
water diving and colorful corals but we
have our own brand here different than
warm water but just as beautiful don't
you think
let's go deeper these nutrient dense
green seas support some really cool
macro lights but also supports some
fascinating Giants right past that kelp
greenling there's a wolf eel look ahead
do you see look at the size of him this
is a male and he's got his eye on a sea
urchin his strong jaws make quick work
of the tough exoskeleton
look beside him do you see there's a
smaller darker female wool feels I
sought to mate for life or at least
extended periods of time they can live
together in the same den for up to five
to seven years let's leave these two
alone to enjoy their snack and continue
along our dive let's see what else we
can find in these green seas look to
your right there's a Giant Pacific
octopus the largest known species of
octopus in the world he's well
camouflaged their pupils unlike ours are
square and can adjust to light by
changing shape I notice it I'm just
gonna adjust my life so it's not too
bright for him all right
Giant Pacific octopus are perfectly
adapted for life on our cold water reefs
can you see it changing as he moves
along their ability to camouflage by
changing both their color and their
texture allow them to hide from
predators such as sea lions another
marine mammals
right in front of the octopus you can
see a leather star and the model star
it's moving amongst promotion enemies
Giant Pacific octopus are fascinating
their intelligence is thought to be
similar to that of a common house cat
into their arms has separate nerve
bundles that are thought to think
independently this means it has both a
central brain and eight other smaller
brains in its arms octopus can eat a
variety of things those eight arms can
taste behind rocks and crevices for
tasty morsels such as crabs and scallops
all right let's continue along on our
dive encountering your octopus on a diet
he's always an incredible experience and
I think we're pretty lucky to have seen
one on ours let's see what else we can
find
as we move away keep your eye on the
octopus can you see him
he's blundered completely in with his
surroundings the life we've encountered
and these green seas is supported by a
mighty ecosystem that surrounds us now
we're about to enter an underwater
forest
Celt for us at home too so much amazing
life as we zoom through it keep your
eyes open
we're swimming through many different
species
I can see bull kelp sugar rat kelp and
split health wow that's a stellar sea
lion and it looks like a young male keep
a lookout behind this he might make him
reappearance they can grow to be over 3
meters in length making them the largest
species of Ceylon kelp forests provide
shelter for juveniles its habitat food
and protection from predators and what I
love about kelp is that it also supports
us not only protecting our coastlines
from storms and rising sea levels
kelp absorbs carbon from the atmosphere
we're still learning about how much but
we know it's important as our ocean
temperatures are continuing to rise with
changing climate
making our green seas a valuable part of
our blue planet
you